Let’s get a fresh diagram, exactly the same as before.
How do we actually use it?
Let’s say we get the sentence: “Moo.”
We can already see that it starts with
a capital letter and ends with a full stop,
but let’s run it through the automaton
to see what happens.
Beginning from the start state (which is '1'),
we take each character in turn,
following the transition for each one.
The first character ‘M’ is uppercase,
so we follow the ‘U’ transition to State 3.
Then we have a lowercase ‘o’, so we follow
the ‘L’ transition which loops around and back to State 3.
Another lowercase ‘o’, so again we follow
the ‘L’ transition back to State 3.
And lastly we have a full stop so we follow
the ‘S’ transition to State 4.
So, we’ve gone through the string of letters
and ended up at State 4.
Remember from before that this is an accepting state
because it has two circles.
Since we ended up in an accepting state,
the sentence “Moo.” is accepted;
it does indeed start with a capital letter
and end with a full stop.